---
title: Retrospect
date: 2023-01-28T01:35:30.805276
---
Would you prefer if people only talked about the necessary bits, leaving any
emotion out of it? Regardless of your answer, it is most effective communication
method I know. Things could be very straightforward and clear, removing any
cloud of doubt in the message. This combined with logical reasoning might the
best ever form of communication we are capable of. Does this mean a perfect
human is one without emotions? Doesn't it mean we will achieve greater
efficiency and success with it?

But it also means we lose apathy right? What new heighs are we going climb
without it? Why are we climbing anyways? Why not just enjoy it from the valley?
This reminds me of [Equilibrium](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0238380/). Nice
Movie. Would recommend.

## What do we die for?
I am one of those who seek the meaning of life. People believe in different
things. Some strive for eternal paradise, some for peace and some for whatever
niceties they can get before and after death. Death was always interesting for
me. Maybe because dearest people died in front of me. Did they have something to
tell me, after they were dead? Or were they just, dead? I don't know. What I
know is that there isn't much for me the grand scheme of things. There is
probably no purpose to my life. There is (probably) nothing that awaits me after
death. It is said that the lifetime of a universe is the time of breath cycle of
Brahma, and we are so in-significant that the next universe will be created
right after.

> I think anything eternal will eventually become boring. I love to drive, but
> driving forever is a punishment. Same for my favourite
> snack/game/movie/paradise. Maybe eternal hell will be boring as well

## Night
Night is special for me. Earth (I never been outside so can't talk about other
planets) is so much more enjoyable without the light of sun. Everything comes to
life at night. There is a certain beauty to the darkness that it becomes so
possessive at times.

> Fun fact: I was nicknamed _owl_ in high school

## Football (Malayalam: പന്തുകളി)
Northern Kerala (Malabar) has a special festival that happens mostly in winter.
It is called [sevens football](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sevens_football)
tournaments. Trust me, we love football. But we also love to butcher it. If you
know football, you know it is (officially) played with 11 players on each team.
But we play it with 7 on each. Matches are extremely physical, and are played in
a mud pitch. Venues are usually wide fields (we have a lot of paddy fields) or
school grounds. They may not have the necessary infrastructure, hence everything
is built temporarily, using arecanut tree, including the gallery. The atmosphere
is usually electric, sometimes violent, and rarely chaotic.

It has been a while since I went to one of these events. Past week, me and a
friend very accidentally got into one. We were out for our usual evening walk,
and saw fireworks from distance. I knew about the event and we decided to check
it out. By the team we reached there, it was already half time. I was not really
interested in getting in. Mostly because I unknowingly developed this football
elitism, in which only higher tier (read English Premier League) football is
considered actual. All other forms are seen as disgraces. But as you may have
imagined, we finally got in. This happened because of two things

- There was nobody to check tickets
- The atmosphere suddenly became so loud (became interesting)

|![football](/media/blog/retrospect/football.jpg)|
|:--:|
|*Photo from Google. I was too immersed to click a picture*|

I did not know which teams were playing, or at what time this will end. Any of
decision is immediately followed by a regret check. I don't regret any of it,
but sometimes make changes to catch up. In this case, I felt like I am alone in
a crowd (friend beside me), and it wouldn't be false to say I considered
leaving. After a while though, I found myself cheering both teams. I cussed at
both teams, and found home in both teams. These tournaments import a lot of
manpower from african continent. They don't understand the local language, nor
does locals understand them. But in the heat of the moment, everybody understand
everybody else. I could read their happiness, curses, antics and whatnot without
any words. I know they were not teaching quantum physics in that football field,
but I felt emotions are as powerful as words.

> Unexpressed emotions will never die. They are buried alive and will come forth
> later in uglier ways. - Sigmund Freud

## Kathakali (Malayalam: കഥകളി)
[Kathakali](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kathakali) (katha: story, kali: play)
is a classical dance form native to (Southern) Kerala. It is boring, not at all
engaging and you need to have a lot of knowledge to even understand what is
going on. The pace is usually extremely slow and it takes forever to finish.

I watched kathakali before, but as part of school and college art festivals. But
that is not why we (or me) attend such events. The blood brooding youth does not
usually show interest in such art. Long story short, even though it is very
popular in my state, I had no idea what it actually is.

Me and friend were out for some shopping. And while passing a temple, we heard
some music. On the way back, curious to know what was happening there, we went
in. Unsurprisingly, it was kathakali. Now you know I don't like it, but decided
to give it a try. We spent about 2 hours there, and realized

- I'm not in school/college anymore
- I don't understand a thing

Third point must be obvious. You have to have some knowledge about the story
that is being presented. I don't have any such knowledge, and didn't understand
a thing.

> Kathakali actors don't speak (the speak a sign language tbf), they only act.
> There is supposed to be a song in background iirc, but wasn't that case here.
> I might be wrong tho. Maybe we need words to effectively communicate

|![kathakali](/media/blog/retrospect/kathakali.jpg)|
|:--:|
|*Sorry for poor quality, had to zoom in with a mobile camera*|

I was more invested in the music, acting and atmosphere. It was all dark except
for a few lamps in the building. There was a [traditional fire lamp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nilavilakku)
in front of the stage, and a few other lamps in the stage. It all means,
everything other than the stage/actor was grayed out. So you could really
notice all the expressions and emotions on his face, and the accompanying music
amplified it the next level. Every bit of that music transferred his emotions
straight into my heart. I could feel the anger, panic and ultimately regret. It
made me so immersed that I could visualise the scene myself (not knowing the
story became a boon, because I now have the freedom to make up my own). It made
me think if sound/atmosphere actually contribute to effective communications. My
answer would be yes, it does. Interestingly,
[this](https://theconversation.com/whats-behind-the-obsession-over-whether-elizabeth-holmes-intentionally-lowered-her-voice-177961)
came into mind.

## Kantara
You might know [Kantara](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt15327088/). It tells the
story of a remote village and their traditions. I'm not a movie reviewer so I
can't entertain you with all the technicalities. The movie did not impress me
much, except the rare occasions in which the demigod appears. I am not a
believer, so I won't talk about god and stuff. What made it interesting is the
background score. It was so chilling and engaging that it conveyed the message
pretty well. But in the end, it is a movie and I'm watching it in air
conditioned cinema theater.

Watching kathakali though, is a very similar very different experience.
Everything felt hyper realistic, nerve chilling and engaging. Our ability to
communicate (universally) with slighter movements of muscles is fascinating. I
would recommend you to try any of these arts. There are plenty in our great
nation.

## Why though?
These events (with numerous others) taught me that we are, in the end, simply
live to live. It is hard to survive in a world where competition is in it's
extreme. We often forget to enjoy the things around us. We miss the opportunity
to actually live instead of being in a rat race. I still don't know the purpose
of life, but I now know there are places to go and things to do, starting from
home. Maybe we don't need to be all logical. Some things don't make sense at
all, but they still make you happy (how do you define happiness?). Maybe words
are not the basis of communication. Instead they could be tip of this iceberg.
With emotions deep under.

> 'Which is more important,' asked Big Panda, 'the journey or the destination?'
> 'The company,' said Tiny Dragon.

Thanks for bearing with me, adios!
